>> Jon Kuperman: So now that is done, the
rest of the exercises should be a lot more
fun cuz we won't have to
install anything else.
So the next section that we're
gonna be moving into is Debugging.
So we kind of walked through how we
would go about authoring new code or
changing existing code from the DevTools.
And now, we're gonna kinda pivot a bit and
talk about an app that we finished, but
there's a problem with that and
we really wanna figure out
why some errors are occurring or
why some bug is happening.
And so for this one if we pop back over to
the DevTools and go to this debugging tab.
So the DevTools provide the step
through debugger, which,
if you're coming from other programming
languages, like back end languages,
might be a really familiar concept to you.
But if you're new to development or
if you've only been doing web development,
it might be a less familiar concept.
So if I go ahead and
open up the DevTools again, and
let me close all of these.
>> Jon Kuperman: And
then I'm gonna open a new file.
Remember, I said I was gonna sprinkle
some tips and tricks in here.
One cool thing is if you hit
Cmd+Shift+P or Ctrl+Shift+P on Windows.
You get these like auto complete where
you can do anything that you can do with
the mouse in the DevTools.
So I can hop over to the Elements
panel and it moves me,
Cmd+Shift+P, hop over to Sources.
And it moves me Cmd+Shift+P, there's
tons of cool stuff you can do here.
So yeah, I use that pretty often so
I don't have to hop back over to my mouse.
So yeah, so I'll open my sources, and
then instead of that Cmd+Shift+P,
which is how to hop around within sources,
you can Cmd+P.
And that's gonna be like if you use
sublime Cmd+T as your fuzzy search through
your file system or a lot of other
editors, it'll be like Cmd+P or
maybe Cmd+Shift+P, whatever.
So this is gonna be your fuzzy search.
So it's gonna search through all of
the files that it has access to.
And one way that we might wanna simplify
this now that we're not doing work spaces
anymore is to go ahead from file system
and just remove this work space so
there's less kinda clutter,
there's less stuff to get in the way.
So if I hit Cmd+P,
I can kinda see like all the files that
are coming down on this page, right?
So I can see my debugging, some css files,
this Chrome extension
which I meant to turn off.
JQuery, Lodash,
all these things are coming down.
And so if I go ahead and
I open the debugging file which is here.
Lesson-debugging.js.
We can kinda see some
straightforward JavaScript code.
So again, the goal here,
there's nothing tricky here.
There's nothing about scope or
variable names, anything like that.
I just kinda wanted to
show how stuff works.
So we've got function one,
console logs, it calls two and three.
Function two console logs, function
three console logs, and calls four.
Just kind of some straight forward
a few functions calling each other.
You can imagine your production code is
gonna be a lot more complicated but for
the example I think this will be good.
Another thing that I wanted to point out,
we'll cover in a minute,
this concept of setting breakpoints,
right?
And so setting a breakpoint is to say, as
soon as the parser hits this line of code,
pause and show me what's going on,
what the state of the world is out there.
But there's another cool way you can
do it, which is this debugger keyword.
And so you can put the debugger
keyword in your actual code and
then refresh the page with the DevTools
open, and it'll have a breakpoint there.
The danger here is you can ship
this to production, right?
And then,
anybody with DevTools open is gonna get
this breakpoint every time they go.
So if you're gonna start using debugger,
you probably want a lint rule to make sure
you don't push the debugger to production,
same with probably console logs,
or alerts, or anything like that.
So if we go in my editor.
>> Jon Kuperman: And lesson-debugging.
We can see I have this
debugger word in here.
So before I've done anything with
the DevTools, just by virtue of having
them open, if I refresh the page, we're
gonna get this paused in debugger, right?
That's because I have the DevTools open,
and
I hit a website that has
the debugger keyword in it.
So it stops me here.
So a few things like to do the editing
section we use the left tab a lot, right?
That's how we added workspaces or
checked out files.
For the debugging section I'm gonna kinda
minimize them and then move it over to
the side a little bit, because we're
not gonna be using it as much.
We are gonna be using this
right tab a lot more.
So you'll notice a few things happen when
a breakpoint is triggered, and just for
an example say this debugger is the exact
equivalent, if I go back to my code,
remove the debugger line and save it.
And then I can click on any line number,
and any line number that is actionable
will give me this little blue thing,
that means there is a breakpoint there.
So now there is a breakpoint here when
you refresh it stops here as well.
So you've kind of got two different
approaches for how to get a breakpoint.
You can do it in the code or the word
debugger or if you know where the code is
in sources you can click on that line
number and it will pause execution there.
So when that happens you can
get this little message here.
Pause it on breakpoint and
you get a couple of different
things over on this right side.
In the middle here, we can see exactly
what we'd expect, we see our source code,
and the line that's highlighted blue
is the line that we're paused on.
So if you had multiple debuggers it'll
always highlight blue the one that it's
actively stopped on.
I'm gonna expand this little
right side here a little bit.
So we've got some options
that we're gonna cover.
At the very top here we have
our kind of navigation options.
We'll cover these in a minute but
the basic idea is once stopped
you have some choices.
You can step over, step into,
step out of or see the next one.
And we'll cover what each of those mean
by the kinda concept is where it stop to
a certain line of code and
it's like whoa, did you want it?
And maybe it calls a function, it's like,
do you wanna go into that function or
do you wanna go to the next line
of code or do you wanna, you know.
And then when you go into
the function it's like okay,
I'm done here, I wanna go back out.
You can kind of move around like this.
The big thing to keep in mind is
you can't go backwards, right?
It's not a time travelling debugger, like
if you use something like Redux DevTools,
that's a time travelling debugger.
So you can replay actions or you can
undo actions, this isn't like that,
this is just unidirectional
as it's parsing.
So if you step into a function and
then step back out of it,
you don't go back to where you were,
you go to the next line now.
But, either way, you've got something
paused and you can kinda play around.
So we'll cover this
in-depth in a second here.
We got a few things here.
So if I minimize all these, we've got
a lot of different things going on.
So watch is really useful.
Let me delete these, what watch lets you
do is it lets you put in any expression,
so it could be a variable, it could be
multiple variables, anything like that.
And what it'll do like if I go add and
I add one here,
it'll tell you if that variable is defined
in the current scope what it's set to.
So we can see one is defined,
it's a function.
If I click on it it shows me
the arguments the caller the length.
So this is a really useful like
if you're doing an API call and
there's an error and
you're not sure what the error is,
you can put a debug statement
in the success function.
And then you can click Watch,
add input your data name,
whatever variable your name it.
And now you can start really clicking
through with no worry about time,
things or frozen you can click through.
So that's the Watch is good for.
It's also cool,
because anything that you add the Watch,
it'll keep trying to evaluate.
So if I were, example,
to declare a variable in a function and
put a breakpoint there and
put a watch on it, we're good, right?
We're gonna see the variable.
And then let's say, I go step over and
then move into another function where
that variable no longer exists.
The Watch will update in real time and
say okay, well, now it's undefined.
And if you go back and say okay,
now it's the variable.
And so it kinda tells you what's available
at that time, which is really handy.
The Call Stack It's really simply
like how did we get here, right?
So it's like whenever you put a debugger,
it's like how did we get here?
So the Call Stack get really big in
production apps as you can imagine.
But the kind of important thing is if
you're seeing a line of code like an error
condition is getting hit and
you're like well,
why is the error condition getting hit?
You'll see this big call stack here.
So I can see here one got called,
it's like well why did one get called?
It's like,
because of this anonymous function.
So I can actually see the call sign
where the function was invoked, right?
With a bigger app, or whatever, if you're
in the error condition see what, if,
check for the error condition,
you can step back as far as you want.
You'll normally see at the very bottom
of a call stack you'll see a global
function call, like this.
Maybe you'll see an event happen,
like a browser event, like a click.
How did we get into this area,
it's like well, somebody clicked.
Or you'll see like an async, like
a fetch call happen, those kinda things.
So it starts at the very beginning, and
it'll take you all the way through
until that exact line of code.
Scope is pretty handy,
I usually just use watch.
But you can see,
I don't know if anybody is ever been like,
you're trying to do like this.foo, and
it's like, foo is undefined, or whatever.
And you're like, what?
Why don't I have access to it?
So you can go into the scope and
you can see exactly what you have access
to at that moment in time, right?
You can see, in the global scope, here
are the things that we have access to.
A lot of these are just DOM API's,
browser defaults.
These are just what you have
access to in JavaScript, right?
And so
you've got a lot of stuff like that.
As you get a more complex app,
you'll see your function scope too, right?
So you can say,
what does this function have access to?
And you'll be like, it has foo and
it has var, those kinda things.
There's a lot of noise in here.
So typically that's why I prefer to
just add what I want via watch, right?
So a watch for this.foo,
and if it's undefined,
then I'll change my watch to just be
this and I'll see what's on there.
The next one is just breakpoints.
So this is just, as you start debugging
this way, you might add more and
more breakpoints.
It's like okay, I want one here, and I
want one here, and I like my one up here.
So you'll add more and more.
You can delete them by
right clicking on one.
And again you can remove all, or
deactivate them, or whatever.
You can also just uncheck them, which
keeps them stored, kind a like cached, but
they won't trigger any longer.
So you can see when I uncheck this one,
it goes from a dark blue to a light blue,
light blue means deactivated.
So yes, you've got kind of all these
breakpoints all over the place.
The bottom four, we're gonna
get into later this lesson, but
later, but I just kinda wanted to like
walk through what's going on up here.
So I would really say if you're
trying to explore, that's awesome,
you should look through all of it.
If you're really just trying to kinda
simplify things for yourself, you don't
really need to look at the Breakpoints
tab, cuz you can see them here.
You should have your Watch open all the
time so you can change what you're looking
for, and you should have your
Call Stack open all the time, so
you can see how you got there.
Those are the two that I use the most
probably why they're at the top.
Okay, so going back to this kind of
concept of, is that kind of good for
everybody?
Just like what these panels kinda
contain and why they might be useful.
Okay, let me know at anytime
if you have questions.
I know there's a lot getting covered.
So if we go all the way back to this
concept where I just have one breakpoint
at this one console log,
that's all I've got.
So as we start kinda wanting to navigate
around you've got these five buttons here.
So one of them is resume script execution.
And what this one is gonna do is be like
I don't need this breakpoint right now.
Please continue going until either you hit
another breakpoint or the page just loads.
So since I only have the one breakpoint,
if I were to hit resume script execution
it'll just load the page, right?
So hit that, it just loads the page.
There's no more stuff to stop.
If I had two breakpoints, like one here
and one here, and I refreshed the page and
I get stopped on this one.
And I'm like,
I don't really care about that right now.
And I hit Resume,
it'll just play to the next breakpoint.
So resume is like cool,
I'm done with this breakpoint,
please move on until either you finish or
you hit the next one.
So I'll remove the breakpoint and
I'll kind of refresh the page.
So the next thing that you can do is that
you can step over the next function call.
So if you're at, let this one doesn't make
a lot of sense till we hit this next one.
So I'll hit step over and
boom it moves me down to line two.
So notice, things are changing a little
bit here where we didn't manually add
a breakpoint to line two,
we only added it to this console log, and
then we're now we are like
stepping through the code, right?
That's why I stepped through debugger.
So we've stepped into line two, and
now we got some choices, right?
We can say like, I don't care about two,
show me the next line of code.
Or we can say I do care about two, go
into that function, I wanna drill in and
see what's going on.
We don't really have the option to step
out of the function because that'll just
go back to the global, right?
That'll just take us back out and
we'll be done.
So if we wanted to step in to two, we can
click step into next function call and
we'll see that the now the break point
gets moved into this function two here,
console.log from function two.
So now again kinda the options are we
can keep going, scripts done, right?
There's no more breakpoints.
We can not really step into
anything because there's no
more functions that we're calling, right?
We can step back out and here's where I
find like a lot of confusion I think to
a lot of people, they would think,
well, I was on line three,
I stepped in to line eight, now, I'd like
to step back out to line three again.
But that's not exactly how it works.
So if we step out, we'll notice it's
completed with this line three and
has moved onto the next line basically.
And the reason again,
it's not time traveling, right?
In order to step into the function,
it actually plays that bit of code.
So when you step back out,
it won't take you back in time.
It'll just take you to what
would of been next otherwise.
So if that's confusing,
if it helps to think about it.
So if we start over again by
refreshing and we hit Step Over.
So we're here now, at this point,
it would be equivalent to step over to and
to step in to and out of,
those are equivalent things, right?
Stepping over a function is the equivalent
of stepping into it and back out.
I hope that's gonna high,
think about it if that helps.
So let's step over into three,
get the same kind of option.
Step into three, and where here, will
step on to the next one which is four,
we'll step into four, which is here.
This one really just kinda comes with the
time, as you're kind of clicking around.
The cool thing is it's a website,
if you go too far, just refresh, okay?
[LAUGH] And then you start back at the top
again, no problems, pretty easy there.
But I think we have an exercise
on this coming up, and
I think it just helps to even just do this
on your own sites, like add a breakpoint,
start stepping through until
it gets really comfortable.
Is everybody good so far?
Yeah, a question.
>> Speaker 2: Who did that new
step?
>> Jon Kuperman: What was that?
I'm sorry.
>> Speaker 2: Is that a new option for
just plain step after step out?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so
this is a new option.
So instead of stepping,
it's a little bit weird, right?
Because they do basically
the equivalent thing.
It is a new option,
it's just a single step.
So what it means is step is either
over if it's not a function, or
into if it is a function.
So do the next thing is what step means,
right?
So when we're here and
then we're like, okay, we hit step,
it's gonna be like,
is that a function that I can call?
No, then I'll just step over, right?
But now we're here, and we hit step, it's
like, is it a function that I can call?
Yes, so it will step in.
Does that make sense?
It's kinda like just do whatever is next,
as opposed to you dictating
whether you go in or over.
And it kind of shows that like going
in is not always an option, right?
So for here, I went on console.log, and
we say step in, it's not gonna do that,
it's gonna be the equivalent.
That's a little bit tricky, it'd be
probably better if the buttons were
disabled, is what it probably should be,
right?
Because you can't step into
something that's not a function.
They kind of all have their place, I think
it's better in more complicated code where
like calling things that are variables and
you're like just do the next step
basically.
>> Speaker 2: Thank you.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: We were asking about
those two arrows on
the right of the right point?
>> Jon Kuperman: The two.
>> Speaker 2: So line number two,
you've got a breakpoint on the left,
and then there's.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yep, yeah, so
this is really cool.
We're gonna get into
this a cool amount later.
But DevTools starts adding all of,
this like a lot of it's new, and
it's really helpful.
So what we'll start noticing, especially
when you start debugging complicated
applications, is as you set these
breakpoints, instead of making you add
watches for everything,
it tries to be really helpful and
just inline a bunch of
contextual information for you.
So I think I'm, let me try this,
I think this might be a cool example.
So instead of just calling one,
I call one and pass in the word foo.
And then over here I take the word foo and
then maybe I console.log(foo),
something like that.
So we kinda refresh here.
We can see that it inlines
this information for me.
So it's like showing me inline
what got passed into the function.
So I don't have to manually add watches.
Similarly, it'll add these little arrows,
anywhere where it has dropdown
information, more contextual information.
So it has two different things.
It has contextual information on the
console object, so I can hover over that
and it'll show me what I can call
on console, which is really great.
And it also has information
on this log function.
And so I can hover over that and
see that log is a function that doesn't
take any parameters, mandatory.